ORCHESTRATION.md, before:

# Mission Control Orchestration Guide

This document explains how to orchestrate tasks in Mission Control, including how to:
- Register sub-agents
- Log activities
- Track deliverables
- Update task status

## API Base URL

```
http://localhost:3000
```

Or use the `MISSION_CONTROL_URL` environment variable.

## Task Lifecycle

```
INBOX → ASSIGNED → IN_PROGRESS → REVIEW → DONE
```

## When You Receive a Task

When a task is dispatched to you, the message includes:
- Task ID
- Output directory path
- API endpoints to call

## Required API Calls

### 1. Register Sub-Agent (when spawning a worker)

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID}/subagent \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "openclaw_session_id": "unique-session-id",
    "agent_name": "Designer"
  }'
```

This registers the sub-agent and increments the "Active Sub-Agents" counter.

### 2. Log Activity (for each significant action)

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID}/activities \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "activity_type": "updated",
    "message": "Started working on design mockups",
    "agent_id": "optional-agent-uuid"
  }'
```

Activity types:
- `spawned` - When sub-agent starts
- `updated` - Progress update
- `completed` - Work finished
- `file_created` - Created a deliverable
- `status_changed` - Task moved to new status

### 3. Register Deliverable (for each output file)

**IMPORTANT: You must CREATE THE FILE FIRST before registering it as a deliverable!**

```bash
# Step 1: Actually create the file
mkdir -p ${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage
cat > ${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage/index.html << 'EOF'
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head><title>Homepage</title></head>
<body><h1>Welcome</h1></body>
</html>
EOF

# Step 2: Register the deliverable (will warn if file doesn't exist)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID}/deliverables \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "deliverable_type": "file",
    "title": "Homepage Design",
    "path": "${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage/index.html",
    "description": "Main homepage with responsive layout"
  }'
```

The API will return a `warning` field if the file doesn't exist:
```json
{
  "id": "...",
  "title": "Homepage Design",
  "warning": "File does not exist at path: ${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage/index.html. Please create the file."
}
```

Deliverable types:
- `file` - Local file (must exist!)
- `url` - Web URL
- `artifact` - Other output

### 4. Update Task Status

```bash
curl -X PATCH http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID} \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "status": "review"
  }'
```

## Complete Example Workflow

```bash
TASK_ID="abc-123"
BASE_URL="http://localhost:3000"

# 1. Log that you're starting
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/activities \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"activity_type": "updated", "message": "Starting work on task"}'

# 2. Spawn a sub-agent
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/subagent \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"openclaw_session_id": "subagent-'$(date +%s)'", "agent_name": "Designer"}'

# 3. Sub-agent does work and creates file...
mkdir -p ${PROJECTS_PATH}/my-project
echo "<html><body>Hello World</body></html>" > ${PROJECTS_PATH}/my-project/output.html

# 4. Register the deliverable
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/deliverables \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "deliverable_type": "file",
    "title": "Completed Design",
    "path": "${PROJECTS_PATH}/my-project/output.html",
    "description": "Final design with all requested features"
  }'

# 5. Log completion
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/activities \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"activity_type": "completed", "message": "Design completed successfully"}'

# 6. Move to review
curl -X PATCH $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"status": "review"}'
```

## Debugging

Enable debug mode in browser console:
```javascript
mcDebug.enable()
```

Then refresh and watch for:
- `[SSE]` - Server-sent events
- `[STORE]` - Zustand state changes
- `[API]` - API calls
- `[FILE]` - File operations

## Endpoints Reference

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/api/tasks` | GET | List all tasks |
| `/api/tasks` | POST | Create task |
| `/api/tasks/{id}` | GET | Get task details |
| `/api/tasks/{id}` | PATCH | Update task |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/activities` | GET | List activities |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/activities` | POST | Log activity |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/deliverables` | GET | List deliverables |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/deliverables` | POST | Add deliverable |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/subagent` | GET | List sub-agents |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/subagent` | POST | Register sub-agent |
| `/api/openclaw/sessions` | GET | List all sessions |
| `/api/openclaw/sessions/{id}` | PATCH | Update session (mark complete) |
| `/api/openclaw/sessions/{id}` | DELETE | Delete a session |
| `/api/files/reveal` | POST | Open file in Finder |
| `/api/files/preview` | GET | Preview HTML file |
| `/api/files/upload` | POST | Upload file from remote agent |
| `/api/files/upload` | GET | Get upload endpoint info |
| `/api/files/download` | GET | Download file from server |

## Activity Body Schema

```json
{
  "activity_type": "spawned|updated|completed|file_created|status_changed",
  "message": "Human-readable description of what happened",
  "agent_id": "optional-uuid-of-agent",
  "metadata": { "optional": "additional data" }
}
```

## Deliverable Body Schema

```json
{
  "deliverable_type": "file|url|artifact",
  "title": "Display name for the deliverable",
  "path": "/full/path/to/file.html",
  "description": "Optional description"
}
```

## Sub-Agent Body Schema

```json
{
  "openclaw_session_id": "unique-identifier-for-session",
  "agent_name": "Designer|Developer|Researcher|Writer"
}
```

## File Upload Body Schema (for remote agents)

```json
{
  "relativePath": "project-name/filename.html",
  "content": "<!DOCTYPE html>...",
  "encoding": "utf-8"
}
```

The file will be saved at `${PROJECTS_PATH}/{relativePath}`

## File Download Query Parameters (for remote agents)

```
GET /api/files/download?relativePath=project-name/filename.html
GET /api/files/download?path=${PROJECTS_PATH}/project-name/filename.html
GET /api/files/download?relativePath=project-name/filename.html&raw=true
```

Query parameters:
- `relativePath` - Path relative to projects base (preferred)
- `path` - Full absolute path (must be under projects base)
- `raw` - If `true`, returns raw file content; otherwise returns JSON with metadata

JSON response includes: `success`, `path`, `relativePath`, `size`, `contentType`, `content`, `encoding`, `modifiedAt`

## Completing a Sub-Agent Session

When a sub-agent finishes its work, mark it as complete:

```bash
curl -X PATCH http://localhost:3000/api/openclaw/sessions/{SESSION_ID} \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "status": "completed",
    "ended_at": "'$(date -u +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ)'"
  }'
```

This updates the agent status to "idle" and broadcasts an `agent_completed` event.

## Deleting a Sub-Agent Session

To delete a stuck or unwanted session:

```bash
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:3000/api/openclaw/sessions/{SESSION_ID}
```

## SSE Events

The following events are broadcast to all connected clients:

- `task_created` - New task added
- `task_updated` - Task modified (including status changes)
- `activity_logged` - New activity logged
- `deliverable_added` - New deliverable registered
- `agent_spawned` - Sub-agent started
- `agent_completed` - Sub-agent finished

Commit message:

Add TESTING status with rework loop for automated QA workflow
- Add 'testing' status between in_progress and review
- Enhance test endpoint with CSS validation and URL deliverable support
- Support comma-separated status filters in tasks API
- Add TESTING column to kanban UI
- Update agent completion webhook to move tasks to testing
- Add ASSIGNED step to HEARTBEAT.md for failed test rework
- Add favicon to prevent console errors

Workflow: INBOX → ASSIGNED → IN_PROGRESS → TESTING → REVIEW → DONE
Rework:  TESTING (fail) → ASSIGNED → IN_PROGRESS → TESTING (retry)

ORCHESTRATION.md, after:

# Mission Control Orchestration Guide

This document explains how to orchestrate tasks in Mission Control, including how to:
- Register sub-agents
- Log activities
- Track deliverables
- Update task status

## API Base URL

```
http://localhost:3000
```

Or use the `MISSION_CONTROL_URL` environment variable.

## Task Lifecycle

```
INBOX → ASSIGNED → IN_PROGRESS → TESTING → REVIEW → DONE
```

**Status Descriptions:**
- **INBOX**: New tasks awaiting processing
- **ASSIGNED**: Task assigned to an agent, ready to be worked on
- **IN_PROGRESS**: Agent actively working on the task
- **TESTING**: Automated quality gate - runs browser tests, CSS validation, resource checks
- **REVIEW**: Passed automated tests, awaiting human approval
- **DONE**: Task completed and approved

## When You Receive a Task

When a task is dispatched to you, the message includes:
- Task ID
- Output directory path
- API endpoints to call

## Required API Calls

### 1. Register Sub-Agent (when spawning a worker)

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID}/subagent \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "openclaw_session_id": "unique-session-id",
    "agent_name": "Designer"
  }'
```

This registers the sub-agent and increments the "Active Sub-Agents" counter.

### 2. Log Activity (for each significant action)

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID}/activities \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "activity_type": "updated",
    "message": "Started working on design mockups",
    "agent_id": "optional-agent-uuid"
  }'
```

Activity types:
- `spawned` - When sub-agent starts
- `updated` - Progress update
- `completed` - Work finished
- `file_created` - Created a deliverable
- `status_changed` - Task moved to new status

### 3. Register Deliverable (for each output file)

**IMPORTANT: You must CREATE THE FILE FIRST before registering it as a deliverable!**

```bash
# Step 1: Actually create the file
mkdir -p ${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage
cat > ${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage/index.html << 'EOF'
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head><title>Homepage</title></head>
<body><h1>Welcome</h1></body>
</html>
EOF

# Step 2: Register the deliverable (will warn if file doesn't exist)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID}/deliverables \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "deliverable_type": "file",
    "title": "Homepage Design",
    "path": "${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage/index.html",
    "description": "Main homepage with responsive layout"
  }'
```

The API will return a `warning` field if the file doesn't exist:
```json
{
  "id": "...",
  "title": "Homepage Design",
  "warning": "File does not exist at path: ${PROJECTS_PATH}/homepage/index.html. Please create the file."
}
```

Deliverable types:
- `file` - Local file (must exist!)
- `url` - Web URL
- `artifact` - Other output

### 4. Update Task Status

```bash
curl -X PATCH http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/{TASK_ID} \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "status": "review"
  }'
```

## Complete Example Workflow

```bash
TASK_ID="abc-123"
BASE_URL="http://localhost:3000"

# 1. Log that you're starting
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/activities \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"activity_type": "updated", "message": "Starting work on task"}'

# 2. Spawn a sub-agent
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/subagent \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"openclaw_session_id": "subagent-'$(date +%s)'", "agent_name": "Designer"}'

# 3. Sub-agent does work and creates file...
mkdir -p ${PROJECTS_PATH}/my-project
echo "<html><body>Hello World</body></html>" > ${PROJECTS_PATH}/my-project/output.html

# 4. Register the deliverable
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/deliverables \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "deliverable_type": "file",
    "title": "Completed Design",
    "path": "${PROJECTS_PATH}/my-project/output.html",
    "description": "Final design with all requested features"
  }'

# 5. Log completion
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID/activities \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"activity_type": "completed", "message": "Design completed successfully"}'

# 6. Move to review
curl -X PATCH $BASE_URL/api/tasks/$TASK_ID \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"status": "review"}'
```

## Debugging

Enable debug mode in browser console:
```javascript
mcDebug.enable()
```

Then refresh and watch for:
- `[SSE]` - Server-sent events
- `[STORE]` - Zustand state changes
- `[API]` - API calls
- `[FILE]` - File operations

## Endpoints Reference

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/api/tasks` | GET | List all tasks |
| `/api/tasks` | POST | Create task |
| `/api/tasks/{id}` | GET | Get task details |
| `/api/tasks/{id}` | PATCH | Update task |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/activities` | GET | List activities |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/activities` | POST | Log activity |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/deliverables` | GET | List deliverables |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/deliverables` | POST | Add deliverable |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/subagent` | GET | List sub-agents |
| `/api/tasks/{id}/subagent` | POST | Register sub-agent |
| `/api/openclaw/sessions` | GET | List all sessions |
| `/api/openclaw/sessions/{id}` | PATCH | Update session (mark complete) |
| `/api/openclaw/sessions/{id}` | DELETE | Delete a session |
| `/api/files/reveal` | POST | Open file in Finder |
| `/api/files/preview` | GET | Preview HTML file |
| `/api/files/upload` | POST | Upload file from remote agent |
| `/api/files/upload` | GET | Get upload endpoint info |
| `/api/files/download` | GET | Download file from server |

## Activity Body Schema

```json
{
  "activity_type": "spawned|updated|completed|file_created|status_changed",
  "message": "Human-readable description of what happened",
  "agent_id": "optional-uuid-of-agent",
  "metadata": { "optional": "additional data" }
}
```

## Deliverable Body Schema

```json
{
  "deliverable_type": "file|url|artifact",
  "title": "Display name for the deliverable",
  "path": "/full/path/to/file.html",
  "description": "Optional description"
}
```

## Sub-Agent Body Schema

```json
{
  "openclaw_session_id": "unique-identifier-for-session",
  "agent_name": "Designer|Developer|Researcher|Writer"
}
```

## File Upload Body Schema (for remote agents)

```json
{
  "relativePath": "project-name/filename.html",
  "content": "<!DOCTYPE html>...",
  "encoding": "utf-8"
}
```

The file will be saved at `${PROJECTS_PATH}/{relativePath}`

## File Download Query Parameters (for remote agents)

```
GET /api/files/download?relativePath=project-name/filename.html
GET /api/files/download?path=${PROJECTS_PATH}/project-name/filename.html
GET /api/files/download?relativePath=project-name/filename.html&raw=true
```

Query parameters:
- `relativePath` - Path relative to projects base (preferred)
- `path` - Full absolute path (must be under projects base)
- `raw` - If `true`, returns raw file content; otherwise returns JSON with metadata

JSON response includes: `success`, `path`, `relativePath`, `size`, `contentType`, `content`, `encoding`, `modifiedAt`

## Completing a Sub-Agent Session

When a sub-agent finishes its work, mark it as complete:

```bash
curl -X PATCH http://localhost:3000/api/openclaw/sessions/{SESSION_ID} \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "status": "completed",
    "ended_at": "'$(date -u +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ)'"
  }'
```

This updates the agent status to "idle" and broadcasts an `agent_completed` event.

## Deleting a Sub-Agent Session

To delete a stuck or unwanted session:

```bash
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:3000/api/openclaw/sessions/{SESSION_ID}
```

## SSE Events

The following events are broadcast to all connected clients:

- `task_created` - New task added
- `task_updated` - Task modified (including status changes)
- `activity_logged` - New activity logged
- `deliverable_added` - New deliverable registered
- `agent_spawned` - Sub-agent started
- `agent_completed` - Sub-agent finished
